e2e-tests/README.md, before:

# Building and testing the Operator

## Requirements

You need to install a number of software packages on your system to satisfy the build dependencies for building the Operator and/or to run its automated tests.

### CentOS

```
sudo yum -y install epel-release https://repo.percona.com/yum/percona-release-latest.noarch.rpm
sudo yum -y install coreutils sed jq curl yq
curl -s -L https://github.com/openshift/origin/releases/download/v3.11.0/openshift-origin-client-tools-v3.11.0-0cbc58b-linux-64bit.tar.gz \
    | tar -C /usr/bin --strip-components 1 --wildcards -zxvpf - '*/oc' '*/kubectl'
curl -s https://get.helm.sh/helm-v3.2.4-linux-amd64.tar.gz \
    | tar -C /usr/bin --strip-components 1 -zxvpf - '*/helm'
curl https://sdk.cloud.google.com | bash
```

### MacOS

```
brew install coreutils gnu-sed jq kubernetes-cli openshift-cli kubernetes-helm yq
curl https://sdk.cloud.google.com | bash
```

### Runtime requirements

Also, you need a Kubernetes platform of [supported version](https://www.percona.com/doc/kubernetes-operator-for-psmongodb/System-Requirements.html#officially-supported-platforms), available via [EKS](https://www.percona.com/doc/kubernetes-operator-for-psmongodb/eks.html), [GKE](https://www.percona.com/doc/kubernetes-operator-for-psmongodb/gke.html), [OpenShift](https://www.percona.com/doc/kubernetes-operator-for-psmongodb/openshift.html) or [minikube](https://www.percona.com/doc/kubernetes-operator-for-psmongodb/minikube.html) to run the Operator.

**Note:** there is no need to build an image if you are going to test some already-released version.

## Building and testing the Operator

There are scripts which build the image and run tests. Both building and testing
needs some repository for the newly created docker images. If nothing is
specified, scripts use Percona's experimental repository `perconalab/percona-server-mongodb-operator`, which
obviously requires decent access rights to make a push.

To specify your own repository for the Percona Server for MongoDB Operator docker image, you can use IMAGE environment variable:

```
export IMAGE=bob/my_repository_for_test_images:K8SPSMDB-372-fix-feature-X
```

Use the following script to build the image:

```
./e2e-tests/build
```

You can also build the image and run your cluster in one command:

```
./e2e-tests/build-and-run
```

Running all tests at once can be done with the following command:

```
./e2e-tests/run
```

(see how to configure the testing infrastructure [here](#using-environment-variables-to-customize-the-testing-process)).

Tests can be executed one-by-one, usingthe following scripts (their names  should be self-explanatory):


```
./e2e-tests/init-deploy/run
./e2e-tests/arbiter/run
./e2e-tests/limits/run
./e2e-tests/scaling/run
./e2e-tests/demand-backup/run
./e2e-tests/scheduled-backup/run
./e2e-tests/storage/run
./e2e-tests/self-healing/run
./e2e-tests/operator-self-healing/run
....
```

## Using environment variables to customize the testing process

### Re-declaring default image names

You can use environment variables to re-declare all default images used for testing. The
full list of variables is the following one:

* `IMAGE` - Percona Server for MongoDB Operator, `perconalab/percona-server-mongodb-operator:main` by default,
* `IMAGE_MONGOD` - mongod, `perconalab/percona-server-mongodb-operator:main-mongod4.4` by default,
* `IMAGE_PMM` - Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM) client, `perconalab/pmm-client:dev-latest` by default,
* `IMAGE_BACKUP` - backup, `perconalab/percona-server-mongodb-operator:main-backup` by default,

### Skipping backup tests on S3-compatible storage

Making backups [on S3-compatible storage](https://www.percona.com/doc/kubernetes-operator-for-psmongodb/backups.html#making-scheduled-backups) needs creating Secrets to have the access to the S3 buckets. There is an environment variable which allows to skip all tests which require such Secrets.

```
SKIP_BACKUPS_TO_AWS_GCP=1
```

The backups tests will use only [MinIO](https://min.io/) if this variable is declared,
which is enough for local testing.

Commit message:

add docker, yq@3 brew tap, mention backups skip is on by default

e2e-tests/README.md, after:

# Building and testing the Operator

## Requirements

You need to install a number of software packages on your system to satisfy the build dependencies for building the Operator and/or to run its automated tests.

### CentOS

Run the following commands to install the required components:

```
sudo yum -y install epel-release https://repo.percona.com/yum/percona-release-latest.noarch.rpm
sudo yum -y install coreutils sed jq curl docker yq
curl -s -L https://github.com/openshift/origin/releases/download/v3.11.0/openshift-origin-client-tools-v3.11.0-0cbc58b-linux-64bit.tar.gz \
    | tar -C /usr/bin --strip-components 1 --wildcards -zxvpf - '*/oc' '*/kubectl'
curl -s https://get.helm.sh/helm-v3.2.4-linux-amd64.tar.gz \
    | tar -C /usr/bin --strip-components 1 -zxvpf - '*/helm'
curl https://sdk.cloud.google.com | bash
```

### MacOS

Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/), and run the following commands for the other required components:

```
brew install coreutils gnu-sed jq kubernetes-cli openshift-cli kubernetes-helm
brew install yq@3
brew link yq@3
curl https://sdk.cloud.google.com | bash
```

### Runtime requirements

Also, you need a Kubernetes platform of [supported version](https://www.percona.com/doc/kubernetes-operator-for-psmongodb/System-Requirements.html#officially-supported-platforms), available via [EKS](https://www.percona.com/doc/kubernetes-operator-for-psmongodb/eks.html), [GKE](https://www.percona.com/doc/kubernetes-operator-for-psmongodb/gke.html), [OpenShift](https://www.percona.com/doc/kubernetes-operator-for-psmongodb/openshift.html) or [minikube](https://www.percona.com/doc/kubernetes-operator-for-psmongodb/minikube.html) to run the Operator.

**Note:** there is no need to build an image if you are going to test some already-released version.

## Building and testing the Operator

There are scripts which build the image and run tests. Both building and testing
needs some repository for the newly created docker images. If nothing is
specified, scripts use Percona's experimental repository `perconalab/percona-server-mongodb-operator`, which
obviously requires decent access rights to make a push.

To specify your own repository for the Percona Server for MongoDB Operator docker image, you can use IMAGE environment variable:

```
export IMAGE=bob/my_repository_for_test_images:K8SPSMDB-372-fix-feature-X
```

Use the following script to build the image:

```
./e2e-tests/build
```

You can also build the image and run your cluster in one command:

```
./e2e-tests/build-and-run
```

Running all tests at once can be done with the following command:

```
./e2e-tests/run
```

(see how to configure the testing infrastructure [here](#using-environment-variables-to-customize-the-testing-process)).

Tests can be executed one-by-one also, using the appropriate scripts (their names should be self-explanatory):


```
./e2e-tests/init-deploy/run
./e2e-tests/arbiter/run
./e2e-tests/limits/run
./e2e-tests/scaling/run
./e2e-tests/demand-backup/run
./e2e-tests/scheduled-backup/run
./e2e-tests/storage/run
./e2e-tests/self-healing/run
./e2e-tests/operator-self-healing/run
....
```

## Using environment variables to customize the testing process

### Re-declaring default image names

You can use environment variables to re-declare all default images used for testing. The
full list of variables is the following one:

* `IMAGE` - Percona Server for MongoDB Operator, `perconalab/percona-server-mongodb-operator:main` by default,
* `IMAGE_MONGOD` - mongod, `perconalab/percona-server-mongodb-operator:main-mongod4.4` by default,
* `IMAGE_PMM` - Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM) client, `perconalab/pmm-client:dev-latest` by default,
* `IMAGE_BACKUP` - backup, `perconalab/percona-server-mongodb-operator:main-backup` by default,

### Skipping backup tests on S3-compatible storage

Making backups [on S3-compatible storage](https://www.percona.com/doc/kubernetes-operator-for-psmongodb/backups.html#making-scheduled-backups) needs creating Secrets to have the access to the S3 buckets. There is an environment variable enabled by default, which skips all tests requiring such Secrets:

```
SKIP_BACKUPS_TO_AWS_GCP=1
```

The backups tests will use only [MinIO](https://min.io/) if this variable is declared,
which is enough for local testing.
