source/arbiter.rst, before:

Enabling Replica Set Arbiter nodes
==================================

Percona Server for MongoDB `replication
model <https://www.percona.com/blog/2018/05/17/mongodb-replica-set-transport-encryption-part-1/>`__
is based on elections, during which nodes of the Replica Set `choose the
one of
them <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/replica-set-elections/#replica-set-elections>`__
to become a primary node. Elections are the reason to avoid the even
number of nodes in the cluster, and that’s why the cluster should have
at least 3 nodes. Normally each node stores a complete copy of the data,
but there is also a possibility to reduce disk IO and space used by the
database still remaining the odd member number for elections. `Replica
Set Arbiter
nodes <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/replica-set-arbiter/>`__ are
special members of the cluster which do not replicate data, but only
vote in elections for the primary. Obviously, such empty node doesn’t
demand any persistent volume.

Percona Server for MongoDB Operator allows to create Replica Set Arbiter
nodes if needed. This feature can be configured in the Replica Set
section of the
`deploy/cr.yaml <https://github.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/blob/master/deploy/cr.yaml>`__
file:

-  set ‘arbiter.enabled’ option to ‘true’ to allow Arbiter nodes,
-  use ‘arbiter.size’ option to set the desired amount of the Replica
   Set nodes which should be Arbiter ones instead of containing data.

Commit message:

Cloud 248 psmdb operator documentation updates (#201)
* CLOUD-248-PSMDB-operator-documentation-updates reworked tables and updated text

* CLOUD-248-PSMDB-Operator-documentation-updates Updated the grammar and tables in multiple files. The conf.py and makefile have been used create local HTML and PDF files.

* Update index.rst

* change title to lower case

* formatting fixes

* Update source/openshift.rst

Co-Authored-By: Mykola Marzhan <mykola.marzhan@percona.com>

* removed empty TOC entries

* Delete frameset.html

source/arbiter.rst, after:

Enabling Replica Set Arbiter nodes
==================================

Percona Server for MongoDB `replication
model <https://www.percona.com/blog/2018/05/17/mongodb-replica-set-transport-encryption-part-1/>`__
is based on elections, when nodes of the Replica Set `choose which
node <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/replica-set-elections/#replica-set-elections>`__
becomes the primary node. Elections are the reason to avoid an even
number of nodes in the cluster. The cluster should have
at least three nodes. Normally, each node stores a complete copy of the data,
but there is also a possibility, to reduce disk IO and space used by the
database, to add an `arbiter node <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/replica-set-arbiter/>`__. An arbiter cannot become a primary and does not have a complete copy of the data. The arbiter does have one election vote and can be the odd number for elections. The arbiter does not demand a persistent volume.

Percona Server for MongoDB Operator has the ability to create Replica Set Arbiter
nodes if needed. This feature can be configured in the Replica Set
section of the
`deploy/cr.yaml <https://github.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/blob/master/deploy/cr.yaml>`__
file:

-  set ``arbiter.enabled`` option to ``true`` to allow Arbiter nodes,
-  use ``arbiter.size`` option to set the desired amount of the Replica
   Set nodes which should be Arbiter ones instead of containing data.
