source/backups.rst, before:

Providing Backups
=================

Percona Server for MongoDB Operator allows doing cluster backup in two
ways. *Scheduled backups* are configured in the
`deploy/cr.yaml <https://github.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/blob/master/deploy/cr.yaml>`__
file to be executed automatically in proper time. *On-demand backups*
can be done manually at any moment. Both ways use the `Percona
Backup for
MongoDB <https://github.com/percona/percona-backup-mongodb>`_ tool.

Backup files are usually stored on `Amazon S3 or S3-compatible
storage <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amazon_S3#S3_API_and_competing_services>`_.

.. contents:: :local:

.. _backups.scheduled:

Making scheduled backups
------------------------

Since backups are stored separately on the Amazon S3, a secret with
``AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`` and ``AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`` should be present on
the Kubernetes cluster. The secrets file with these keys should be
created: for example ``deploy/backup-s3.yaml`` file with the following
contents.

.. code:: yaml

   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Secret
   metadata:
     name: my-cluster-name-backup-s3
   type: Opaque
   data:
     AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: UkVQTEFDRS1XSVRILUFXUy1BQ0NFU1MtS0VZ
     AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: UkVQTEFDRS1XSVRILUFXUy1TRUNSRVQtS0VZ

The ``name`` value is the `Kubernetes
secret <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/>`_
name which will be used further, and ``AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`` and
``AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`` are the keys to access S3 storage (and
obviously they should contain proper values to make this access
possible). To have effect secrets file should be applied with the
appropriate command to create the secret object,
e.g. ``kubectl apply -f deploy/backup-s3.yaml`` (for Kubernetes).

Backups schedule is defined in the ``backup`` section of the
`deploy/cr.yaml <https://github.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/blob/master/deploy/cr.yaml>`_
file. This section contains three subsections:

* ``storages`` contains data needed to access the S3-compatible cloud to store
  backups.
* ``schedule`` subsection allows to actually schedule backups (the schedule is
  specified in crontab format).

Here is an example which uses Amazon S3 storage for backups:

.. code:: yaml

   ...
   backup:
     enabled: true
     version: 0.3.0
     ...
     storages:
       s3-us-west:
         type: s3
         s3:
           bucket: S3-BACKUP-BUCKET-NAME-HERE
           region: us-west-2
           credentialsSecret: my-cluster-name-backup-s3
     ...
     schedule:
      - name: "sat-night-backup"
        schedule: "0 0 * * 6"
        keep: 3
        storageName: s3-us-west
     ...

if you use some S3-compatible storage instead of the original
Amazon S3, the `endpointURL <https://docs.min.io/docs/aws-cli-with-minio.html>`_ is needed in the ``s3`` subsection which points to the actual cloud used for backups and
is specific to the cloud provider. For example, using `Google Cloud <https://cloud.google.com>`_ involves the `following <https://storage.googleapis.com>`_ endpointUrl:

.. code:: yaml

   endpointUrl: https://storage.googleapis.com

The options within these three subsections are further explained in the
:ref:`operator.custom-resource-options`.

One option which should be mentioned separately is
``credentialsSecret`` which is a `Kubernetes
secret <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/>`_
for backups. Value of this key should be the same as the name used to
create the secret object (``my-cluster-name-backup-s3`` in the last
example).

The schedule is specified in crontab format as explained in
:ref:`operator.custom-resource-options`.

Making on-demand backup
-----------------------

To make on-demand backup, user should use YAML file with correct names
for the backup and the PXC Cluster, and correct PVC settings. The
example of such file is
`deploy/backup/backup.yaml <https://github.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/blob/master/deploy/backup/backup.yaml>`_.

When the backup config file is ready, actual backup command is executed:

.. code:: bash

   kubectl apply -f deploy/backup/backup.yaml

The example of such file is `deploy/backup/restore.yaml <https://github.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/blob/master/deploy/backup/restore.yaml>`_.

.. note:: Storing backup settings in a separate file can be replaced by
passing its content to the ``kubectl apply`` command as follows:

   .. code:: bash

      cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f-
      apiVersion: psmdb.percona.com/v1
      kind: PerconaServerMongoDBBackup
      metadata:
        name: backup1
      spec:
        psmdbCluster: cluster1
        storageName: s3-us-west
      EOF

Restore the cluster from a previously saved backup
--------------------------------------------------

Following steps are needed to restore a previously saved backup:

1. First of all make sure that the cluster is running.

2. Now find out correct names for the **backup** and the **cluster**. Available
   backups can be listed with the following command:

.. code:: bash

      kubectl get psmdb-backup

   And the following command will list available clusters:

.. code:: bash

      kubectl get psmdb

3. When both correct names are known, the actual restoration process can
   be started as follows:

.. code:: bash

      kubectl apply -f deploy/backup/restore.yaml

.. note:: Storing backup settings in a separate file can be replaced by
   passing its content to the ``kubectl apply`` command as follows:

   .. code:: bash

            cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f-
            apiVersion: psmdb.percona.com/v1
            kind: PerconaServerMongoDBRestore
            metadata:
              name: restore1
            spec:
              pxcCluster: my-cluster-name
              backupName: backup1
            EOF

Delete the unneeded backup
--------------------------

Deleting a previously saved backup requires not more than the backup
name. This name can be taken from the list of available backups returned
by the following command:

.. code:: bash

   kubectl get psmdb-backup

When the name is known, backup can be deleted as follows:

.. code:: bash

   kubectl delete psmdb-backup/<backup-name>

Commit message:

K8SPSMDB-229 mention secret keys are base64 encoded (#391)

source/backups.rst, after:

Providing Backups
=================

Percona Server for MongoDB Operator allows doing cluster backup in two
ways. *Scheduled backups* are configured in the
`deploy/cr.yaml <https://github.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/blob/master/deploy/cr.yaml>`__
file to be executed automatically in proper time. *On-demand backups*
can be done manually at any moment. Both ways use the `Percona
Backup for
MongoDB <https://github.com/percona/percona-backup-mongodb>`_ tool.

Backup files are usually stored on `Amazon S3 or S3-compatible
storage <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amazon_S3#S3_API_and_competing_services>`_.

.. contents:: :local:

.. _backups.scheduled:

Making scheduled backups
------------------------

Since backups are stored separately on the Amazon S3, a secret with
``AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`` and ``AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`` should be present on
the Kubernetes cluster. The secrets file with these base64-encoded keys should
be created: for example ``deploy/backup-s3.yaml`` file with the following
contents.

.. code:: yaml

   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Secret
   metadata:
     name: my-cluster-name-backup-s3
   type: Opaque
   data:
     AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: UkVQTEFDRS1XSVRILUFXUy1BQ0NFU1MtS0VZ
     AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: UkVQTEFDRS1XSVRILUFXUy1TRUNSRVQtS0VZ

.. note:: The following command can be used to get a base64-encoded string from
   a plain text one: ``$ echo -n 'plain-text-string' | base64``

The ``name`` value is the `Kubernetes
secret <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/>`_
name which will be used further, and ``AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`` and
``AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`` are the keys to access S3 storage (and
obviously they should contain proper values to make this access
possible). To have effect secrets file should be applied with the
appropriate command to create the secret object,
e.g. ``kubectl apply -f deploy/backup-s3.yaml`` (for Kubernetes).

Backups schedule is defined in the ``backup`` section of the
`deploy/cr.yaml <https://github.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/blob/master/deploy/cr.yaml>`_
file. This section contains three subsections:

* ``storages`` contains data needed to access the S3-compatible cloud to store
  backups.
* ``schedule`` subsection allows to actually schedule backups (the schedule is
  specified in crontab format).

Here is an example which uses Amazon S3 storage for backups:

.. code:: yaml

   ...
   backup:
     enabled: true
     version: 0.3.0
     ...
     storages:
       s3-us-west:
         type: s3
         s3:
           bucket: S3-BACKUP-BUCKET-NAME-HERE
           region: us-west-2
           credentialsSecret: my-cluster-name-backup-s3
     ...
     schedule:
      - name: "sat-night-backup"
        schedule: "0 0 * * 6"
        keep: 3
        storageName: s3-us-west
     ...

if you use some S3-compatible storage instead of the original
Amazon S3, the `endpointURL <https://docs.min.io/docs/aws-cli-with-minio.html>`_ is needed in the ``s3`` subsection which points to the actual cloud used for backups and
is specific to the cloud provider. For example, using `Google Cloud <https://cloud.google.com>`_ involves the `following <https://storage.googleapis.com>`_ endpointUrl:

.. code:: yaml

   endpointUrl: https://storage.googleapis.com

The options within these three subsections are further explained in the
:ref:`operator.custom-resource-options`.

One option which should be mentioned separately is
``credentialsSecret`` which is a `Kubernetes
secret <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/>`_
for backups. Value of this key should be the same as the name used to
create the secret object (``my-cluster-name-backup-s3`` in the last
example).

The schedule is specified in crontab format as explained in
:ref:`operator.custom-resource-options`.

Making on-demand backup
-----------------------

To make on-demand backup, user should use YAML file with correct names
for the backup and the PXC Cluster, and correct PVC settings. The
example of such file is
`deploy/backup/backup.yaml <https://github.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/blob/master/deploy/backup/backup.yaml>`_.

When the backup config file is ready, actual backup command is executed:

.. code:: bash

   kubectl apply -f deploy/backup/backup.yaml

The example of such file is `deploy/backup/restore.yaml <https://github.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/blob/master/deploy/backup/restore.yaml>`_.

.. note:: Storing backup settings in a separate file can be replaced by
passing its content to the ``kubectl apply`` command as follows:

   .. code:: bash

      cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f-
      apiVersion: psmdb.percona.com/v1
      kind: PerconaServerMongoDBBackup
      metadata:
        name: backup1
      spec:
        psmdbCluster: cluster1
        storageName: s3-us-west
      EOF

Restore the cluster from a previously saved backup
--------------------------------------------------

Following steps are needed to restore a previously saved backup:

1. First of all make sure that the cluster is running.

2. Now find out correct names for the **backup** and the **cluster**. Available
   backups can be listed with the following command:

.. code:: bash

      kubectl get psmdb-backup

   And the following command will list available clusters:

.. code:: bash

      kubectl get psmdb

3. When both correct names are known, the actual restoration process can
   be started as follows:

.. code:: bash

      kubectl apply -f deploy/backup/restore.yaml

.. note:: Storing backup settings in a separate file can be replaced by
   passing its content to the ``kubectl apply`` command as follows:

   .. code:: bash

            cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f-
            apiVersion: psmdb.percona.com/v1
            kind: PerconaServerMongoDBRestore
            metadata:
              name: restore1
            spec:
              pxcCluster: my-cluster-name
              backupName: backup1
            EOF

Delete the unneeded backup
--------------------------

Deleting a previously saved backup requires not more than the backup
name. This name can be taken from the list of available backups returned
by the following command:

.. code:: bash

   kubectl get psmdb-backup

When the name is known, backup can be deleted as follows:

.. code:: bash

   kubectl delete psmdb-backup/<backup-name>
