source/gke.rst, before:

==========================================================================================
Install Percona Server for MongoDB on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)
==========================================================================================

This quickstart shows you how to configure a Percona Distribution for MongoDB Operator with the Google Kubernetes Engine. The document assumes some experience with Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE). For more information on the GKE, see the `Kubernetes Engine Quickstart <https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/quickstart>`_.

Prerequisites
=============

All commands from this quickstart can be run either in the **Google Cloud shell** or in **your local shell**.

To use *Google Cloud shell*, you need nothing but a modern web browser.

If you would like to use *your local shell*, install the following:

1. `gcloud <https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/quickstarts>`_. This tool is part of the Google Cloud SDK. To install it, select your operating system on the `official Google Cloud SDK documentation page <https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs>`_ and then follow the instructions.
2. `kubectl <https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/quickstart#choosing_a_shell>`_. It is the Kubernetes command-line tool you will use to manage and deploy applications. To install the tool, run the following command:

   .. code:: bash

      $ gcloud auth login
      $ gcloud components install kubectl

Configuring default settings for the cluster
============================================

You can configure the settings using the ``gcloud`` tool. You can run it either in the `Cloud Shell <https://cloud.google.com/shell/docs/quickstart>`_ or in your local shell (if you have installed Google Cloud SDK locally on the previous step). The following command will create a cluster named ``my-cluster-name``:

.. code:: bash

   $ gcloud container clusters create my-cluster-name --project <project name> --zone us-central1-a --cluster-version {{{gkerecommended}}} --machine-type n1-standard-4 --num-nodes=3

.. note:: You must edit the following command and other command-line statements to replace the ``<project name>`` placeholder with your project name. You may also be required to edit the *zone location*, which is set to ``us-central1`` in the above example. Other parameters specify that we are creating a cluster with 3 nodes and with machine type of 4 vCPUs and 45 GB memory.

.. |rarr|   unicode:: U+02192 .. RIGHTWARDS ARROW

You may wait a few minutes for the cluster to be generated, and then you will see it listed in the Google Cloud console (select *Kubernetes Engine* |rarr| *Clusters* in the left menu panel):

.. image:: ./img/gke-quickstart-cluster-connect.png
   :align: center

Now you should configure the command-line access to your newly created cluster to make ``kubectl`` be able to use it.

In the Google Cloud Console, select your cluster and then click the *Connect* shown on the above image. You will see the connect statement configures command-line access. After you have edited the statement, you may run the command in your local shell:

.. code:: bash

   $ gcloud container clusters get-credentials my-cluster-name --zone us-central1-a --project <project name>

Installing the Operator
=======================

1. First of all, use your `Cloud Identity and Access Management (Cloud IAM) <https://cloud.google.com/iam>`_ to control access to the cluster. The following command will give you the ability to create Roles and RoleBindings:

   .. code:: bash

      $ kubectl create clusterrolebinding cluster-admin-binding --clusterrole cluster-admin --user $(gcloud config get-value core/account)

   The return statement confirms the creation:

   .. code:: text

      clusterrolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/cluster-admin-binding created

2. Create a namespace and set the context for the namespace. The resource names must be unique within the namespace and provide a way to divide cluster resources between users spread across multiple projects.

   So, create the namespace and save it in the namespace context for subsequent commands as follows (replace the ``<namespace name>`` placeholder with some descriptive name):

   .. code:: bash

      $ kubectl create namespace <namespace name>
      $ kubectl config set-context $(kubectl config current-context) --namespace=<namespace name>

   At success, you will see the message that *namespace/<namespace name>* was created, and the context (*gke_<project name>_<zone location>_<cluster name>*) was modified.

3. Use the following ``git clone`` command to download the correct branch of the percona-server-mongodb-operator repository:

   .. code:: bash

      git clone -b release-1.10.0 https://github.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator

   After the repository is downloaded, change the directory to run the rest of the commands in this document:

   .. code:: bash

      cd percona-server-mongodb-operator

4. Deploy the Operator with the following command:

   .. code:: bash

      kubectl apply -f deploy/bundle.yaml

   The following confirmation is returned:

   .. code:: text

      customresourcedefinition.apiextensions.k8s.io/perconaservermongodbs.psmdb.percona.com created
      customresourcedefinition.apiextensions.k8s.io/perconaservermongodbbackups.psmdb.percona.com created
      customresourcedefinition.apiextensions.k8s.io/perconaservermongodbrestores.psmdb.percona.com created
      role.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/percona-server-mongodb-operator created
      serviceaccount/percona-server-mongodb-operator created
      rolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/service-account-percona-server-mongodb-operator created
      deployment.apps/percona-server-mongodb-operator created


5. The operator has been started, and you can create the Percona Server for MongoDB:

   .. code:: bash

      $ kubectl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml

   The process could take some time.
   The return statement confirms the creation:

   .. code:: text

      perconaservermongodb.psmdb.percona.com/my-cluster-name created

6. During previous steps, the Operator has generated several `secrets <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/>`_, including the password for the ``root`` user, which you will need to access the cluster.

   Use ``kubectl get secrets`` command to see the list of Secrets objects (by default Secrets object you are interested in has ``my-cluster-secrets`` name). Then ``kubectl get secret my-cluster-secrets -o yaml`` will return the YAML file with generated secrets, including the ``MONGODB_USER_ADMIN``
   and ``MONGODB_USER_ADMIN_PASSWORD`` strings, which should look as follows:

   .. code:: yaml

      ...
      data:
        ...
        MONGODB_USER_ADMIN_PASSWORD: aDAzQ0pCY3NSWEZ2ZUIzS1I=
        MONGODB_USER_ADMIN_USER: dXNlckFkbWlu

   Here the actual password is base64-encoded, and ``echo 'aDAzQ0pCY3NSWEZ2ZUIzS1I=' | base64 --decode`` will bring it back to a human-readable form.

Verifying the cluster operation
===============================

It may take ten minutes to get the cluster started. You  can verify its creation with the ``kubectl get pods`` command:

.. code:: bash

   $ kubectl get pods

The result should look as follows:

.. include:: ./assets/code/kubectl-get-pods-response.txt

Also, you can see the same information when browsing Pods of your cluster in Google Cloud console via the *Object Browser*:

.. image:: ./img/gke-quickstart-object-browser.png
   :align: center

If all nodes are up and running, you can try to connect to the cluster.

First of all, run a container with a MongoDB client and connect its console
output to your terminal. The following command will do this, naming the new Pod
``percona-client``:
   
.. code:: bash

   kubectl run -i --rm --tty percona-client --image=percona/percona-server-mongodb:{{{mongodb44recommended}}} --restart=Never -- bash -il

Executing it may require some time to deploy the correspondent Pod. Now run
``mongo`` tool in the percona-client command shell using the login (which is
``userAdmin``) and password obtained from the secret:

.. code:: bash

   mongo "mongodb://userAdmin:userAdminPassword@my-cluster-name-mongos.<namespace name>.svc.cluster.local/admin?ssl=false"

Troubleshooting
===============

If ``kubectl get pods`` command had shown some errors, you can examine the problematic Pod with the ``kubectl describe <pod name>`` command.  For example, this command returns information for the selected Pod:

.. code:: bash

   kubectl describe pod my-cluster-name-rs0-2

Review the detailed information for ``Warning`` statements and then correct the configuration. An example of a warning is as follows:

   *Warning  FailedScheduling  68s (x4 over 2m22s)  default-scheduler  0/1 nodes are available: 1 node(s) didn't match pod affinity/anti-affinity, 1 node(s) didn't satisfy existing pods anti-affinity rules.*

Alternatively, you can examine your Pods via the *object browser*. Errors will look as follows:

.. image:: ./img/gke-quickstart-object-browser-error.png
   :align: center

Clicking the problematic Pod will bring you to the details page with the same warning:

.. image:: ./img/gke-quickstart-object-browser-details.png
   :align: center

Removing the GKE cluster
========================

There are several ways that you can delete the cluster.

You can clean up the cluster with the ``gcloud`` command as follows:

.. code:: bash

   gcloud container clusters delete <cluster name>

The return statement requests your confirmation of the deletion. Type ``y`` to confirm.

Also, you can delete your cluster via the GKE console. Just click the ``Delete`` popup menu item in the clusters list:

.. image:: ./img/gke-quickstart-cluster-connect.png
   :align: center

The cluster deletion may take time.

Commit message:

update version service endpoint url

source/gke.rst, after:

==========================================================================================
Install Percona Server for MongoDB on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)
==========================================================================================

This quickstart shows you how to configure a Percona Distribution for MongoDB Operator with the Google Kubernetes Engine. The document assumes some experience with Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE). For more information on the GKE, see the `Kubernetes Engine Quickstart <https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/quickstart>`_.

Prerequisites
=============

All commands from this quickstart can be run either in the **Google Cloud shell** or in **your local shell**.

To use *Google Cloud shell*, you need nothing but a modern web browser.

If you would like to use *your local shell*, install the following:

1. `gcloud <https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/quickstarts>`_. This tool is part of the Google Cloud SDK. To install it, select your operating system on the `official Google Cloud SDK documentation page <https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs>`_ and then follow the instructions.
2. `kubectl <https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/quickstart#choosing_a_shell>`_. It is the Kubernetes command-line tool you will use to manage and deploy applications. To install the tool, run the following command:

   .. code:: bash

      $ gcloud auth login
      $ gcloud components install kubectl

Configuring default settings for the cluster
============================================

You can configure the settings using the ``gcloud`` tool. You can run it either in the `Cloud Shell <https://cloud.google.com/shell/docs/quickstart>`_ or in your local shell (if you have installed Google Cloud SDK locally on the previous step). The following command will create a cluster named ``my-cluster-name``:

.. code:: bash

   $ gcloud container clusters create my-cluster-name --project <project name> --zone us-central1-a --cluster-version {{{gkerecommended}}} --machine-type n1-standard-4 --num-nodes=3

.. note:: You must edit the following command and other command-line statements to replace the ``<project name>`` placeholder with your project name. You may also be required to edit the *zone location*, which is set to ``us-central1`` in the above example. Other parameters specify that we are creating a cluster with 3 nodes and with machine type of 4 vCPUs and 45 GB memory.

.. |rarr|   unicode:: U+02192 .. RIGHTWARDS ARROW

You may wait a few minutes for the cluster to be generated, and then you will see it listed in the Google Cloud console (select *Kubernetes Engine* |rarr| *Clusters* in the left menu panel):

.. image:: ./img/gke-quickstart-cluster-connect.png
   :align: center

Now you should configure the command-line access to your newly created cluster to make ``kubectl`` be able to use it.

In the Google Cloud Console, select your cluster and then click the *Connect* shown on the above image. You will see the connect statement configures command-line access. After you have edited the statement, you may run the command in your local shell:

.. code:: bash

   $ gcloud container clusters get-credentials my-cluster-name --zone us-central1-a --project <project name>

Installing the Operator
=======================

1. First of all, use your `Cloud Identity and Access Management (Cloud IAM) <https://cloud.google.com/iam>`_ to control access to the cluster. The following command will give you the ability to create Roles and RoleBindings:

   .. code:: bash

      $ kubectl create clusterrolebinding cluster-admin-binding --clusterrole cluster-admin --user $(gcloud config get-value core/account)

   The return statement confirms the creation:

   .. code:: text

      clusterrolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/cluster-admin-binding created

2. Create a namespace and set the context for the namespace. The resource names must be unique within the namespace and provide a way to divide cluster resources between users spread across multiple projects.

   So, create the namespace and save it in the namespace context for subsequent commands as follows (replace the ``<namespace name>`` placeholder with some descriptive name):

   .. code:: bash

      $ kubectl create namespace <namespace name>
      $ kubectl config set-context $(kubectl config current-context) --namespace=<namespace name>

   At success, you will see the message that *namespace/<namespace name>* was created, and the context (*gke_<project name>_<zone location>_<cluster name>*) was modified.

3. Use the following ``git clone`` command to download the correct branch of the percona-server-mongodb-operator repository:

   .. code:: bash

      git clone -b release-1.10.0 https://github.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator

   After the repository is downloaded, change the directory to run the rest of the commands in this document:

   .. code:: bash

      cd percona-server-mongodb-operator

4. Deploy the Operator with the following command:

   .. code:: bash

      kubectl apply -f deploy/bundle.yaml

   The following confirmation is returned:

   .. code:: text

      customresourcedefinition.apiextensions.k8s.io/perconaservermongodbs.psmdb.percona.com created
      customresourcedefinition.apiextensions.k8s.io/perconaservermongodbbackups.psmdb.percona.com created
      customresourcedefinition.apiextensions.k8s.io/perconaservermongodbrestores.psmdb.percona.com created
      role.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/percona-server-mongodb-operator created
      serviceaccount/percona-server-mongodb-operator created
      rolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/service-account-percona-server-mongodb-operator created
      deployment.apps/percona-server-mongodb-operator created

5. The operator has been started, and you can create the Percona Server for MongoDB.
   Change the version service endpoint in the ``deploy/cr.yaml`` configuration
   file for the **Operator 0.10.0 preview release**: change the
   ``versionServiceEndpoint`` key from ``https://check.percona.com`` to
   ``https://check-dev.percona.com``. Now Percona Server for MongoDB cluster can
   be created with the following command:

   .. code:: bash

      $ kubectl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml

   The process could take some time.
   The return statement confirms the creation:

   .. code:: text

      perconaservermongodb.psmdb.percona.com/my-cluster-name created

6. During previous steps, the Operator has generated several `secrets <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/>`_, including the password for the ``root`` user, which you will need to access the cluster.

   Use ``kubectl get secrets`` command to see the list of Secrets objects (by default Secrets object you are interested in has ``my-cluster-secrets`` name). Then ``kubectl get secret my-cluster-secrets -o yaml`` will return the YAML file with generated secrets, including the ``MONGODB_USER_ADMIN``
   and ``MONGODB_USER_ADMIN_PASSWORD`` strings, which should look as follows:

   .. code:: yaml

      ...
      data:
        ...
        MONGODB_USER_ADMIN_PASSWORD: aDAzQ0pCY3NSWEZ2ZUIzS1I=
        MONGODB_USER_ADMIN_USER: dXNlckFkbWlu

   Here the actual password is base64-encoded, and ``echo 'aDAzQ0pCY3NSWEZ2ZUIzS1I=' | base64 --decode`` will bring it back to a human-readable form.

Verifying the cluster operation
===============================

It may take ten minutes to get the cluster started. You  can verify its creation with the ``kubectl get pods`` command:

.. code:: bash

   $ kubectl get pods

The result should look as follows:

.. include:: ./assets/code/kubectl-get-pods-response.txt

Also, you can see the same information when browsing Pods of your cluster in Google Cloud console via the *Object Browser*:

.. image:: ./img/gke-quickstart-object-browser.png
   :align: center

If all nodes are up and running, you can try to connect to the cluster.

First of all, run a container with a MongoDB client and connect its console
output to your terminal. The following command will do this, naming the new Pod
``percona-client``:
   
.. code:: bash

   kubectl run -i --rm --tty percona-client --image=percona/percona-server-mongodb:{{{mongodb44recommended}}} --restart=Never -- bash -il

Executing it may require some time to deploy the correspondent Pod. Now run
``mongo`` tool in the percona-client command shell using the login (which is
``userAdmin``) and password obtained from the secret:

.. code:: bash

   mongo "mongodb://userAdmin:userAdminPassword@my-cluster-name-mongos.<namespace name>.svc.cluster.local/admin?ssl=false"

Troubleshooting
===============

If ``kubectl get pods`` command had shown some errors, you can examine the problematic Pod with the ``kubectl describe <pod name>`` command.  For example, this command returns information for the selected Pod:

.. code:: bash

   kubectl describe pod my-cluster-name-rs0-2

Review the detailed information for ``Warning`` statements and then correct the configuration. An example of a warning is as follows:

   *Warning  FailedScheduling  68s (x4 over 2m22s)  default-scheduler  0/1 nodes are available: 1 node(s) didn't match pod affinity/anti-affinity, 1 node(s) didn't satisfy existing pods anti-affinity rules.*

Alternatively, you can examine your Pods via the *object browser*. Errors will look as follows:

.. image:: ./img/gke-quickstart-object-browser-error.png
   :align: center

Clicking the problematic Pod will bring you to the details page with the same warning:

.. image:: ./img/gke-quickstart-object-browser-details.png
   :align: center

Removing the GKE cluster
========================

There are several ways that you can delete the cluster.

You can clean up the cluster with the ``gcloud`` command as follows:

.. code:: bash

   gcloud container clusters delete <cluster name>

The return statement requests your confirmation of the deletion. Type ``y`` to confirm.

Also, you can delete your cluster via the GKE console. Just click the ``Delete`` popup menu item in the clusters list:

.. image:: ./img/gke-quickstart-cluster-connect.png
   :align: center

The cluster deletion may take time.
