source/helm.rst, before:

.. _install-helm:

Install Percona Server for MongoDB using Helm
==============================================

`Helm <https://github.com/helm/helm>`_ is the package manager for Kubernetes. Percona Helm charts can be found in `percona/percona-helm-charts <https://github.com/percona/percona-helm-charts>`_ repository on Github.

Pre-requisites
--------------

Install Helm following its `official installation instructions <https://docs.helm.sh/using_helm/#installing-helm>`_.

.. note:: Helm v3 is needed to run the following steps.


Installation
-------------

#. Add the Percona's Helm charts repository and make your Helm client up to
   date with it:

   .. code:: bash

      helm repo add percona https://percona.github.io/percona-helm-charts/
      helm repo update

#. Install Percona Distribution for MongoDB Operator:

   .. code:: bash

      helm install my-op percona/psmdb-operator

   The ``my-op`` parameter in the above example is the name of `a new release object <https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/#three-big-concepts>`_ 
   which is created for the Operator when you install its Helm chart (use any
   name you like).

   .. note:: If nothing explicitly specified, ``helm install`` command will work
      with ``default`` namespace. To use different namespace, provide it with
      the following additional parameter: ``--namespace my-namespace``.

#. Install Percona Server for MongoDB:

   .. code:: bash

      helm install my-db percona/psmdb-db

   The ``my-db`` parameter in the above example is the name of `a new release object <https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/#three-big-concepts>`_ 
   which is created for the Percona Server for MongoDB when you install its Helm
   chart (use any name you like).

Installing Percona Server for MongoDB with customized parameters
----------------------------------------------------------------

The command above installs Percona Server for MongoDB with :ref:`default parameters<operator.custom-resource-options>`.
Custom options can be passed to a ``helm install`` command as a
``--set key=value[,key=value]`` argument. The options passed with a chart can be
any of the Operator's :ref:`operator.custom-resource-options`.

The following example will deploy a Percona Server for MongoDB Cluster in the
``psmdb`` namespace, with disabled backups and 20 Gi storage:

.. code:: bash

   helm install my-db percona/psmdb-db --namespace psmdb \
     --set replset.volumeSpec.pvc.resources.requests.storage=20Gi \
     --set backup.enabled=false

Commit message:

K8SPSMDB-541 clarify problem with setting replset options (#755)
* K8SPSMDB-541 clarify problem with setting replset options

* improve example

* improve comment

source/helm.rst, after:

.. _install-helm:

Install Percona Server for MongoDB using Helm
==============================================

`Helm <https://github.com/helm/helm>`_ is the package manager for Kubernetes. Percona Helm charts can be found in `percona/percona-helm-charts <https://github.com/percona/percona-helm-charts>`_ repository on Github.

Pre-requisites
--------------

Install Helm following its `official installation instructions <https://docs.helm.sh/using_helm/#installing-helm>`_.

.. note:: Helm v3 is needed to run the following steps.


Installation
-------------

#. Add the Percona's Helm charts repository and make your Helm client up to
   date with it:

   .. code:: bash

      helm repo add percona https://percona.github.io/percona-helm-charts/
      helm repo update

#. Install Percona Distribution for MongoDB Operator:

   .. code:: bash

      helm install my-op percona/psmdb-operator

   The ``my-op`` parameter in the above example is the name of `a new release object <https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/#three-big-concepts>`_ 
   which is created for the Operator when you install its Helm chart (use any
   name you like).

   .. note:: If nothing explicitly specified, ``helm install`` command will work
      with ``default`` namespace. To use different namespace, provide it with
      the following additional parameter: ``--namespace my-namespace``.

#. Install Percona Server for MongoDB:

   .. code:: bash

      helm install my-db percona/psmdb-db

   The ``my-db`` parameter in the above example is the name of `a new release object <https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/#three-big-concepts>`_ 
   which is created for the Percona Server for MongoDB when you install its Helm
   chart (use any name you like).

Installing Percona Server for MongoDB with customized parameters
----------------------------------------------------------------

The command above installs Percona Server for MongoDB with :ref:`default parameters<operator.custom-resource-options>`.
Custom options can be passed to a ``helm install`` command as a
``--set key=value[,key=value]`` argument. The options passed with a chart can be
any of the Operator's :ref:`operator.custom-resource-options`.

.. note:: Parameters from the :ref:`Replica Set section<operator.replsets-section>`
   are treated differently: if you specify *any* parameter from `replsets<operator.replsets-section>`,
   the Operator *will not* use default values for this Replica Set.
   So do not specify Replica Set options at all or specify all needed options
   for the Replica Set.

The following example will deploy a Percona Server for MongoDB Cluster in the
``psmdb`` namespace, with disabled backups and 20 Gi storage:

.. code:: bash

   helm install my-db percona/psmdb-db --namespace psmdb \
     --set "replsets[0].name=rs0" --set "replsets[0].size=3" \
     --set "replsets[0].volumeSpec.pvc.resources.requests.storage=20Gi" \
     --set backup.enabled=false --set sharding.enabled=false
