source/sidecar.rst, before:

.. _operator-sidecar:

================================================================================
Using sidecar containers
================================================================================

The Operator allows you to deploy additional (so-called *sidecar*) containers to
the Pod. You can use this feature to run debugging tools, some specific
monitoring solutions, etc.

.. note::  Custom sidecar containers `can easily access other components of your cluster <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/#resource-sharing-and-communication>`_. 
   Therefore they should be used carefully and by experienced users only.

Adding a sidecar container
==========================

You can add sidecar containers to Percona Distribution for MongoDB Replica Set,
Config Servers, and mongos Pods. Just use ``sidecars`` subsection ing the
``replsets``, ``sharding.configsvrReplSet``, and ``sharding.mongos`` of the
``deploy/cr.yaml`` configuration file. In this subsection, you should specify
the name and image of your container and possibly a command to run:

.. code:: yaml

   spec:
     replsets:
       ....
       sidecars:
       - image: busybox
         command: ["/bin/sh"]
         args: ["-c", "while true; do echo echo $(date -u) 'test' >> /dev/null; sleep 5; done"]
         name: rs-sidecar-0
       ....

Apply your modifications as usual:

.. code:: bash

   $ kubectl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml

Running ``kubectl describe`` command for the appropriate Pod can bring you the
information about the newly created container:

.. code:: text

   $ kubectl describe pod my-cluster-name-rs0-0
   ....
   Containers:
   ....
   rs-sidecar-0:
     Container ID:  docker://f0c3437295d0ec819753c581aae174a0b8d062337f80897144eb8148249ba742
     Image:         busybox
     Image ID:      docker-pullable://busybox@sha256:139abcf41943b8bcd4bc5c42ee71ddc9402c7ad69ad9e177b0a9bc4541f14924
     Port:          <none>
     Host Port:     <none>
     Command:
       /bin/sh
     Args:
       -c
       while true; do echo echo $(date -u) 'test' >> /dev/null; sleep 5; done
     State:          Running
       Started:      Thu, 11 Nov 2021 10:38:15 +0300
     Ready:          True
     Restart Count:  0
     Environment:    <none>
     Mounts:
       /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount from kube-api-access-fbrbn (ro)
   ....

Getting shell access to a sidecar container
===========================================

You can login to your sidecar container as follows:

.. code:: bash

   $ kubectl exec -it my-cluster-name-rs0-0 -c rs-sidecar-0 -- sh
   / #

Mount volumes into sidecar containers
=====================================

It is possible to mount volumes into sidecar containers.

Following subsections describe different `volume types <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#volume-types>`_,
which were tested with sidecar containers and are known to work.

Persistent Volume
-----------------

You can use `Persistent volumes <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/>`_ when you need dynamically provisioned storage which doesn't depend on the Pod lifecycle.
To use such volume, you should *claim* durable storage with `persistentVolumeClaim <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#persistentvolumeclaim>`_ without specifying any non-important details.

The following example requests 1G storage with ``sidecar-volume-claim``
PersistentVolumeClaim, and mounts the correspondent Persistent Volume to the
``rs-sidecar-0`` container's filesystem under the ``/volume0`` directory:

.. code:: yaml

   ...
   sidecars:
   - image: busybox
     command: ["/bin/sh"]
     args: ["-c", "while true; do echo echo $(date -u) 'test' >> /dev/null; sleep 5; done"]
     name: rs-sidecar-0
     volumeMounts:
     - mountPath: /volume0
       name: sidecar-volume-claim
   sidecarPVCs:
   - apiVersion: v1
     kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
     metadata:
       name: sidecar-volume-claim
     spec:
       resources:
         requests:
           storage: 1Gi
       volumeMode: Filesystem
       accessModes:
         - ReadWriteOnce 

Secret
------

You can use a `secret volume <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#secret>`_
to pass the information which needs additional protection (e.g. passwords), to
the container. Secrets are stored with the Kubernetes API and mounted to the
container as RAM-stored files.

You can mount a secret volume as follows:

.. code:: yaml

   ...
   sidecars:
   - image: busybox
     command: ["/bin/sh"]
     args: ["-c", "while true; do echo echo $(date -u) 'test' >> /dev/null; sleep 5; done"]
     name: rs-sidecar-0
     volumeMounts:
     - mountPath: /secret
       name: sidecar-secret
   sidecarVolumes:
   - name: sidecar-secret
     secret:
       secretName: mysecret

The above example creates a ``sidecar-secret`` volume (based on already existing
``mysecret`` `Secret object <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/>`_)
and mounts it to the ``rs-sidecar-0`` container's filesystem under the
``/secret`` directory.

.. note:: Don't forget you need to `create a Secret Object <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/>`_ before you can use it.

configMap
---------

You can use a `configMap volume <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#configmap>`_ to pass some configuration data to the container.
Secrets are stored with the Kubernetes API and mounted to the container as RAM-stored files.

You can mount a configMap volume as follows:

.. code:: yaml

   ...
   sidecars:
   - image: busybox
     command: ["/bin/sh"]
     args: ["-c", "while true; do echo echo $(date -u) 'test' >> /dev/null; sleep 5; done"]
     name: rs-sidecar-0
     volumeMounts:
     - mountPath: /config
       name: sidecar-config
   sidecarVolumes:
   - name: sidecar-config
     configMap:
       name: myconfigmap

The above example creates a ``sidecar-config`` volume (based on already existing
``myconfigmap`` `configMap object <https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/>`_)
and mounts it to the ``rs-sidecar-0`` container's filesystem under the
``/config`` directory.

.. note:: Don't forget you need to `create a configMap Object <https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/#create-a-configmap>`_ before you can use it.

Commit message:

K8SPSMDB-605 document limitations of custom sidecar volumes in mongos pods

source/sidecar.rst, after:

.. _operator-sidecar:

================================================================================
Using sidecar containers
================================================================================

The Operator allows you to deploy additional (so-called *sidecar*) containers to
the Pod. You can use this feature to run debugging tools, some specific
monitoring solutions, etc.

.. note::  Custom sidecar containers `can easily access other components of your cluster <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/#resource-sharing-and-communication>`_. 
   Therefore they should be used carefully and by experienced users only.

Adding a sidecar container
==========================

You can add sidecar containers to Percona Distribution for MongoDB Replica Set,
Config Servers, and mongos Pods. Just use ``sidecars`` subsection ing the
``replsets``, ``sharding.configsvrReplSet``, and ``sharding.mongos`` of the
``deploy/cr.yaml`` configuration file. In this subsection, you should specify
the name and image of your container and possibly a command to run:

.. code:: yaml

   spec:
     replsets:
       ....
       sidecars:
       - image: busybox
         command: ["/bin/sh"]
         args: ["-c", "while true; do echo echo $(date -u) 'test' >> /dev/null; sleep 5; done"]
         name: rs-sidecar-0
       ....

Apply your modifications as usual:

.. code:: bash

   $ kubectl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml

Running ``kubectl describe`` command for the appropriate Pod can bring you the
information about the newly created container:

.. code:: text

   $ kubectl describe pod my-cluster-name-rs0-0
   ....
   Containers:
   ....
   rs-sidecar-0:
     Container ID:  docker://f0c3437295d0ec819753c581aae174a0b8d062337f80897144eb8148249ba742
     Image:         busybox
     Image ID:      docker-pullable://busybox@sha256:139abcf41943b8bcd4bc5c42ee71ddc9402c7ad69ad9e177b0a9bc4541f14924
     Port:          <none>
     Host Port:     <none>
     Command:
       /bin/sh
     Args:
       -c
       while true; do echo echo $(date -u) 'test' >> /dev/null; sleep 5; done
     State:          Running
       Started:      Thu, 11 Nov 2021 10:38:15 +0300
     Ready:          True
     Restart Count:  0
     Environment:    <none>
     Mounts:
       /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount from kube-api-access-fbrbn (ro)
   ....

Getting shell access to a sidecar container
===========================================

You can login to your sidecar container as follows:

.. code:: bash

   $ kubectl exec -it my-cluster-name-rs0-0 -c rs-sidecar-0 -- sh
   / #

Mount volumes into sidecar containers
=====================================

It is possible to mount volumes into sidecar containers.

Following subsections describe different `volume types <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#volume-types>`_,
which were tested with sidecar containers and are known to work.

Persistent Volume
-----------------

You can use `Persistent volumes <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/>`_ when you need dynamically provisioned storage which doesn't depend on the Pod lifecycle.
To use such volume, you should *claim* durable storage with `persistentVolumeClaim <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#persistentvolumeclaim>`_ without specifying any non-important details.

The following example requests 1G storage with ``sidecar-volume-claim``
PersistentVolumeClaim, and mounts the correspondent Persistent Volume to the
``rs-sidecar-0`` container's filesystem under the ``/volume0`` directory:

.. code:: yaml

   ...
   sidecars:
   - image: busybox
     command: ["/bin/sh"]
     args: ["-c", "while true; do echo echo $(date -u) 'test' >> /dev/null; sleep 5; done"]
     name: rs-sidecar-0
     volumeMounts:
     - mountPath: /volume0
       name: sidecar-volume-claim
   sidecarPVCs:
   - apiVersion: v1
     kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
     metadata:
       name: sidecar-volume-claim
     spec:
       resources:
         requests:
           storage: 1Gi
       volumeMode: Filesystem
       accessModes:
         - ReadWriteOnce 

.. note:: Sidecar containers for *mongos* Pods have limited Persistent volumes
   support: ``sharding.mongos.sidecarPVCs`` option can be used if there is a
   single mongos in deployment or when ``ReadWriteMany/ReadOnlyMany``
   access modes are used (but these modes are available not in every storage).

Secret
------

You can use a `secret volume <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#secret>`_
to pass the information which needs additional protection (e.g. passwords), to
the container. Secrets are stored with the Kubernetes API and mounted to the
container as RAM-stored files.

You can mount a secret volume as follows:

.. code:: yaml

   ...
   sidecars:
   - image: busybox
     command: ["/bin/sh"]
     args: ["-c", "while true; do echo echo $(date -u) 'test' >> /dev/null; sleep 5; done"]
     name: rs-sidecar-0
     volumeMounts:
     - mountPath: /secret
       name: sidecar-secret
   sidecarVolumes:
   - name: sidecar-secret
     secret:
       secretName: mysecret

The above example creates a ``sidecar-secret`` volume (based on already existing
``mysecret`` `Secret object <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/>`_)
and mounts it to the ``rs-sidecar-0`` container's filesystem under the
``/secret`` directory.

.. note:: Don't forget you need to `create a Secret Object <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/>`_ before you can use it.

configMap
---------

You can use a `configMap volume <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#configmap>`_ to pass some configuration data to the container.
Secrets are stored with the Kubernetes API and mounted to the container as RAM-stored files.

You can mount a configMap volume as follows:

.. code:: yaml

   ...
   sidecars:
   - image: busybox
     command: ["/bin/sh"]
     args: ["-c", "while true; do echo echo $(date -u) 'test' >> /dev/null; sleep 5; done"]
     name: rs-sidecar-0
     volumeMounts:
     - mountPath: /config
       name: sidecar-config
   sidecarVolumes:
   - name: sidecar-config
     configMap:
       name: myconfigmap

The above example creates a ``sidecar-config`` volume (based on already existing
``myconfigmap`` `configMap object <https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/>`_)
and mounts it to the ``rs-sidecar-0`` container's filesystem under the
``/config`` directory.

.. note:: Don't forget you need to `create a configMap Object <https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/#create-a-configmap>`_ before you can use it.
