source/storage.rst, before:

Local Storage support for the Percona Server for MongoDB Operator
=================================================================

Among the wide rage of volume types, supported by Kubernetes, there are
two which allow Pod containers to access part of the local filesystem on
the node. Two such options are *emptyDir* and *hostPath* volumes.

emptyDir
--------

The name of this option is self-explanatory. When Pod having an
`emptyDir
volume <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir>`__
is assigned to a Node, a directory with the specified name is created on
this node and exists until this Pod is removed from the node. When the
Pod have been deleted, the directory is deleted too with all its
content. All containers in the Pod which have mounted this volume will
gain read and write access to the correspondent directory.

The ``emptyDir`` options in the
`deploy/cr.yaml <https://github.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/blob/master/deploy/cr.yaml>`__
file can be used to turn the emptyDir volume on by setting the directory
name.

The ``emptyDir`` is useful when you use `Percona Memory
Engine <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-server-for-mongodb/LATEST/inmemory.html>`__.

hostPath
--------

A `hostPath
volume <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#hostpath>`__
mounts some existing file or directory from the node’s filesystem into
the Pod.

The ``volumeSpec.hostPath`` subsection in the
`deploy/cr.yaml <https://github.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/blob/master/deploy/cr.yaml>`__
file may include ``path`` and ``type`` keys to set the node’s filesystem
object path and to specify whether it is a file, a directory, or
something else (e.g. a socket):

::

    volumeSpec:
      hostPath:
        path: /data
        type: Directory

Please note, that hostPath directory is not created automatically! Is
should be created manually and should have following correct
attributives: 1. access permissions 2. ownership 3. SELinux security
context

``hostPath`` is useful when you are able to perform manual actions
during the first run and have strong need in improved disk performance.
Also, please consider using tolerations to avoid cluster migration to
different hardware in case of a reboot or a hardware failure.

More details can be found in the `official hostPath Kubernetes
documentation <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#hostpath>`__.

Commit message:

Cloud 248 psmdb operator documentation updates (#201)
* CLOUD-248-PSMDB-operator-documentation-updates reworked tables and updated text

* CLOUD-248-PSMDB-Operator-documentation-updates Updated the grammar and tables in multiple files. The conf.py and makefile have been used create local HTML and PDF files.

* Update index.rst

* change title to lower case

* formatting fixes

* Update source/openshift.rst

Co-Authored-By: Mykola Marzhan <mykola.marzhan@percona.com>

* removed empty TOC entries

* Delete frameset.html

source/storage.rst, after:

Local Storage support for the Percona Server for MongoDB Operator
=================================================================

Among the wide rage of volume types, supported by Kubernetes, there are
two volume types which allow Pod containers to access part of the local filesystem on
the node the *emptyDir* and *hostPath*.

emptyDir
--------

A Pod `emptyDir
volume <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir>`_ is created when the Pod is assigned to a Node. The volume is initially empty and is erased when the Pod is removed from the Node. The containers in the Pod can read and write the files in the emptyDir volume.

The ``emptyDir`` options in the
`deploy/cr.yaml <https://github.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/blob/master/deploy/cr.yaml>`__
file can be used to turn the emptyDir volume on by setting the directory
name.

The ``emptyDir`` is useful when you use `Percona Memory
Engine <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-server-for-mongodb/LATEST/inmemory.html>`__.

hostPath
--------

A `hostPath
volume <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#hostpath>`__
mounts an existing file or directory from the host node’s filesystem into
the Pod. If the pod is removed, the data persists in the host node's filesystem.

The ``volumeSpec.hostPath`` subsection in the
`deploy/cr.yaml <https://github.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/blob/master/deploy/cr.yaml>`__
file may include ``path`` and ``type`` keys to set the node’s filesystem
object path and to specify whether it is a file, a directory, or
something else (e.g. a socket):

::

    volumeSpec:
      hostPath:
        path: /data
        type: Directory

Please note, you must created the hostPath manually and should have following
attributes:

    * access permissions
    * ownership
    * SELinux security context

The ``hostPath`` volume is useful when you perform manual actions
during the first run and require improved disk performance.
Consider using the tolerations settings to avoid a cluster migration to
different hardware in case of a reboot or a hardware failure.

More details can be found in the `official hostPath Kubernetes
documentation <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#hostpath>`__.
