source/update.rst, before:

.. _operator-updates:

Update Percona Server for MongoDB Operator
===========================================

Starting from the version 1.1.0 the Percona Kubernetes Operator for MongoDB allows
upgrades to newer versions. This includes upgrades of the
Operator itself, and upgrades of the Percona Server for MongoDB.

.. _operator-update:

Upgrading the Operator
----------------------

This upgrade can be done either in semi-automatic or in manual mode. 

.. note:: Manual update mode is the recommended way for a production cluster.

.. _operator-update-semi-auto-updates:

Semi-automatic upgrade
**********************

.. note:: Only the incremental update to a nearest minor version is supported
   (for example, update from 1.5.0 to 1.6.0).
   To update to a newer version, which differs from the current version by more
   than one, make several incremental updates sequentially.

#. Update the Custom Resource Definition file for the Operator, taking it from
   the official repository on Github, and do the same for the Role-based access
   control:

   .. code:: bash

      kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/v{{{release}}}/deploy/crd.yaml
      kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/v{{{release}}}/deploy/rbac.yaml

#. Edit the ``deploy/cr.yaml`` file, setting ``updateStrategy`` key to
   ``RollingUpdate``.

#. Now you should `apply a patch <https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/update-api-object-kubectl-patch/>`_ to your
   deployment, supplying necessary image names with a newer version tag. This
   is done with the ``kubectl patch deployment`` command. For example, updating
   to the ``{{{release}}}`` version should look as follows::

     kubectl patch deployment percona-server-mongodb-operator \
        -p'{"spec":{"template":{"spec":{"containers":[{"name":"percona-server-mongodb-operator","image":"percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator:{{{release}}}"}]}}}}'

     kubectl patch psmdb my-cluster-name --type=merge --patch '{
        "spec": {
            "crVersion":"{{{release}}}",
            "image": "percona/percona-server-mongodb:{{{mongodb44recommended}}}",
            "backup": { "image": "percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator:{{{release}}}-backup" },
            "pmm": { "image": "percona/pmm-client:{{{pmm2recommended}}}" }
        }}'

#. The deployment rollout will be automatically triggered by the applied patch.
   You can track the rollout process in real time using the
   ``kubectl rollout status`` command with the name of your cluster::

     kubectl rollout status sts my-cluster-name-rs0

.. _operator-update-manual-updates:

Manual upgrade
**************

.. note:: Only the incremental update to a nearest minor version of the Operator
   is supported (for example, update from 1.5.0 to 1.6.0).
   To update to a newer version, which differs from the current version by more
   than one, make several incremental updates sequentially.

#. Update the Custom Resource Definition file for the Operator, taking it from
   the official repository on Github, and do the same for the Role-based access
   control:

   .. code:: bash

      kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/v{{{release}}}/deploy/crd.yaml
      kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/v{{{release}}}/deploy/rbac.yaml

#. Edit the ``deploy/cr.yaml`` file, setting ``updateStrategy`` key to
   ``OnDelete``.

#. Now you should `apply a patch <https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/update-api-object-kubectl-patch/>`_ to your
   deployment, supplying necessary image names with a newer version tag. This
   is done with the ``kubectl patch deployment`` command. For example, updating
   to the ``{{{release}}}`` version should look as follows::

     kubectl patch deployment percona-server-mongodb-operator \
        -p'{"spec":{"template":{"spec":{"containers":[{"name":"percona-server-mongodb-operator","image":"percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator:{{{release}}}"}]}}}}'

     kubectl patch psmdb my-cluster-name --type=merge --patch '{
        "spec": {
            "crVersion":"{{{release}}}",
            "image": "percona/percona-server-mongodb:{{{mongodb44recommended}}}",
            "backup": { "image": "percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator:{{{release}}}-backup" },
            "pmm": { "image": "percona/pmm-client:{{{pmm2recommended}}}" }
        }}'

#. Pod with the newer Percona Server for MongoDB image will start after you
   delete it. Delete targeted Pods manually one by one to make them restart in
   the desired order:

   #. Delete the Pod using its name with the command like the following one::

         kubectl delete pod my-cluster-name-rs0-2


   #. Wait until Pod becomes ready::

         kubectl get pod my-cluster-name-rs0-2


      The output should be like this::

         NAME                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
         my-cluster-name-rs0-2   1/1     Running   0          3m33s

#. The update process is successfully finished when all Pods have been
   restarted.

.. _operator-update-smartupdates:

Upgrading Percona Server for MongoDB
------------------------------------

Starting from version 1.5.0, the Operator can do fully automatic upgrades to
the newer versions of Percona Server for MongoDB within the method named *Smart
Updates*.

To have this upgrade method enabled, make sure that the ``updateStrategy`` key
in the ``deploy/cr.yaml`` configuration file is set to ``SmartUpdate``.

When automatic updates are enabled, the Operator will carry on upgrades
according to the following algorithm. It will query a special *Version Service* 
server at scheduled times to obtain fresh information about version numbers and
valid image paths needed for the upgrade. If the current version should be
upgraded, the Operator updates the CR to reflect the new image paths and carries
on sequential Pods deletion in a safe order, allowing StatefulSet to redeploy
the cluster Pods with the new image.

The upgrade details are set in the ``upgradeOptions`` section of the 
``deploy/cr.yaml`` configuration file. Make the following edits to configure
updates:

#. Set the ``apply`` option to one of the following values:

   * ``Recommended`` - automatic upgrades will choose the most recent version
     of software flagged as Recommended (for clusters created from scratch,
     the Percona Server for MongoDB 4.4 version will be selected instead of the
     Percona Server for MongoDB 4.2 or 4.0 version
     regardless of the image path; for already existing clusters, the 4.4
     vs. 4.2 or 4.0 branch choice will be preserved),
   * ``Latest`` - automatic upgrades will choose the most recent version of
     the software available (for clusters created from scratch,
     the Percona Server for MongoDB 4.4 version will be selected instead of the
     Percona Server for MongoDB 4.2 or 4.0 version
     regardless of the image path; for already existing clusters, the 4.4
     vs. 4.2 or 4.0 branch choice will be preserved),
   * *specific version number* - will apply an upgrade if the running Percona
     Server for MongoDB
     version doesn't match the explicit version number with no future upgrades
     (version numbers are specified as {{{mongodb44recommended}}},
     {{{mongodb42recommended}}}, etc.),
   * ``Never`` or ``Disabled`` - disable automatic upgrades

     .. note:: When automatic upgrades are disabled by the ``apply`` option, 
        Smart Update functionality will continue working for changes triggered
        by other events, such as rotating a password, or
        changing resource values.

#. Make sure the ``versionServiceEndpoint`` key is set to a valid Version
   Server URL (otherwise Smart Updates will not occur).

   A. You can use the URL of the official Percona's Version Service (default).
      Set ``versionServiceEndpoint`` to ``https://check.percona.com``.

   B. Alternatively, you can run Version Service inside your cluster. This
      can be done with the ``kubectl`` command as follows:
      
      .. code:: bash
      
         kubectl run version-service --image=perconalab/version-service --env="SERVE_HTTP=true" --port 11000 --expose

   .. note:: Version Service is never checked if automatic updates are disabled.
      If automatic updates are enabled, but Version Service URL can not be
      reached, upgrades will not occur.

#. Use the ``schedule`` option to specify the update checks time in CRON format.

The following example sets the midnight update checks with the official
Percona's Version Service:

.. code:: yaml

   spec:
     updateStrategy: SmartUpdate
     upgradeOptions:
       apply: Recommended
       versionServiceEndpoint: https://check.percona.com
       schedule: "0 0 * * *"
   ...

Commit message:

K8SPSMDB-405 mention strict preserving major versions option in update doc

source/update.rst, after:

.. _operator-updates:

Update Percona Server for MongoDB Operator
===========================================

Starting from the version 1.1.0 the Percona Kubernetes Operator for MongoDB allows
upgrades to newer versions. This includes upgrades of the
Operator itself, and upgrades of the Percona Server for MongoDB.

.. _operator-update:

Upgrading the Operator
----------------------

This upgrade can be done either in semi-automatic or in manual mode.

.. note:: Manual update mode is the recommended way for a production cluster.

.. _operator-update-semi-auto-updates:

Semi-automatic upgrade
**********************

.. note:: Only the incremental update to a nearest minor version is supported
   (for example, update from 1.5.0 to 1.6.0).
   To update to a newer version, which differs from the current version by more
   than one, make several incremental updates sequentially.

#. Update the Custom Resource Definition file for the Operator, taking it from
   the official repository on Github, and do the same for the Role-based access
   control:

   .. code:: bash

      kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/v{{{release}}}/deploy/crd.yaml
      kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/v{{{release}}}/deploy/rbac.yaml

#. Edit the ``deploy/cr.yaml`` file, setting ``updateStrategy`` key to
   ``RollingUpdate``.

#. Now you should `apply a patch <https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/update-api-object-kubectl-patch/>`_ to your
   deployment, supplying necessary image names with a newer version tag. This
   is done with the ``kubectl patch deployment`` command. For example, updating
   to the ``{{{release}}}`` version should look as follows::

     kubectl patch deployment percona-server-mongodb-operator \
        -p'{"spec":{"template":{"spec":{"containers":[{"name":"percona-server-mongodb-operator","image":"percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator:{{{release}}}"}]}}}}'

     kubectl patch psmdb my-cluster-name --type=merge --patch '{
        "spec": {
            "crVersion":"{{{release}}}",
            "image": "percona/percona-server-mongodb:{{{mongodb44recommended}}}",
            "backup": { "image": "percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator:{{{release}}}-backup" },
            "pmm": { "image": "percona/pmm-client:{{{pmm2recommended}}}" }
        }}'

#. The deployment rollout will be automatically triggered by the applied patch.
   You can track the rollout process in real time using the
   ``kubectl rollout status`` command with the name of your cluster::

     kubectl rollout status sts my-cluster-name-rs0

.. _operator-update-manual-updates:

Manual upgrade
**************

.. note:: Only the incremental update to a nearest minor version of the Operator
   is supported (for example, update from 1.5.0 to 1.6.0).
   To update to a newer version, which differs from the current version by more
   than one, make several incremental updates sequentially.

#. Update the Custom Resource Definition file for the Operator, taking it from
   the official repository on Github, and do the same for the Role-based access
   control:

   .. code:: bash

      kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/v{{{release}}}/deploy/crd.yaml
      kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator/v{{{release}}}/deploy/rbac.yaml

#. Edit the ``deploy/cr.yaml`` file, setting ``updateStrategy`` key to
   ``OnDelete``.

#. Now you should `apply a patch <https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/update-api-object-kubectl-patch/>`_ to your
   deployment, supplying necessary image names with a newer version tag. This
   is done with the ``kubectl patch deployment`` command. For example, updating
   to the ``{{{release}}}`` version should look as follows::

     kubectl patch deployment percona-server-mongodb-operator \
        -p'{"spec":{"template":{"spec":{"containers":[{"name":"percona-server-mongodb-operator","image":"percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator:{{{release}}}"}]}}}}'

     kubectl patch psmdb my-cluster-name --type=merge --patch '{
        "spec": {
            "crVersion":"{{{release}}}",
            "image": "percona/percona-server-mongodb:{{{mongodb44recommended}}}",
            "backup": { "image": "percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator:{{{release}}}-backup" },
            "pmm": { "image": "percona/pmm-client:{{{pmm2recommended}}}" }
        }}'

#. Pod with the newer Percona Server for MongoDB image will start after you
   delete it. Delete targeted Pods manually one by one to make them restart in
   the desired order:

   #. Delete the Pod using its name with the command like the following one::

         kubectl delete pod my-cluster-name-rs0-2


   #. Wait until Pod becomes ready::

         kubectl get pod my-cluster-name-rs0-2


      The output should be like this::

         NAME                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
         my-cluster-name-rs0-2   1/1     Running   0          3m33s

#. The update process is successfully finished when all Pods have been
   restarted.

.. _operator-update-smartupdates:

Upgrading Percona Server for MongoDB
------------------------------------

Starting from version 1.5.0, the Operator can do fully automatic upgrades to
the newer versions of Percona Server for MongoDB within the method named *Smart
Updates*.

To have this upgrade method enabled, make sure that the ``updateStrategy`` key
in the ``deploy/cr.yaml`` configuration file is set to ``SmartUpdate``.

When automatic updates are enabled, the Operator will carry on upgrades
according to the following algorithm. It will query a special *Version Service* 
server at scheduled times to obtain fresh information about version numbers and
valid image paths needed for the upgrade. If the current version should be
upgraded, the Operator updates the CR to reflect the new image paths and carries
on sequential Pods deletion in a safe order, allowing StatefulSet to redeploy
the cluster Pods with the new image.

The upgrade details are set in the ``upgradeOptions`` section of the 
``deploy/cr.yaml`` configuration file. Make the following edits to configure
updates:

#. Set the ``apply`` option to one of the following values:

   * ``Recommended`` - automatic upgrades will choose the most recent version
     of software flagged as Recommended (for clusters created from scratch,
     the Percona Server for MongoDB 4.4 version will be selected instead of the
     Percona Server for MongoDB 4.2 or 4.0 version
     regardless of the image path; for already existing clusters, the 4.4
     vs. 4.2 or 4.0 branch choice will be preserved),
   * ``4.4-recommended``, ``4.2-recommended``, ``4.0-recommended``,
     ``3.6-recommended`` - same as above, but with preserving specific major
     version,
   * ``Latest`` - automatic upgrades will choose the most recent version of
     the software available (for clusters created from scratch,
     the Percona Server for MongoDB 4.4 version will be selected instead of the
     Percona Server for MongoDB 4.2 or 4.0 version
     regardless of the image path; for already existing clusters, the 4.4
     vs. 4.2 or 4.0 branch choice will be preserved),
   * ``4.4-latest``, ``4.2-latest``, ``4.0-latest``, ``3.6-latest`` - same as
     above, but with preserving specific major version,
   * *specific version number* - will apply an upgrade if the running Percona
     Server for MongoDB
     version doesn't match the explicit version number with no future upgrades
     (version numbers are specified as {{{mongodb44recommended}}},
     {{{mongodb42recommended}}}, etc.),
   * ``Never`` or ``Disabled`` - disable automatic upgrades

     .. note:: When automatic upgrades are disabled by the ``apply`` option, 
        Smart Update functionality will continue working for changes triggered
        by other events, such as rotating a password, or
        changing resource values.

#. Make sure the ``versionServiceEndpoint`` key is set to a valid Version
   Server URL (otherwise Smart Updates will not occur).

   A. You can use the URL of the official Percona's Version Service (default).
      Set ``versionServiceEndpoint`` to ``https://check.percona.com``.

   B. Alternatively, you can run Version Service inside your cluster. This
      can be done with the ``kubectl`` command as follows:
      
      .. code:: bash
      
         kubectl run version-service --image=perconalab/version-service --env="SERVE_HTTP=true" --port 11000 --expose

   .. note:: Version Service is never checked if automatic updates are disabled.
      If automatic updates are enabled, but Version Service URL can not be
      reached, upgrades will not occur.

#. Use the ``schedule`` option to specify the update checks time in CRON format.

The following example sets the midnight update checks with the official
Percona's Version Service:

.. code:: yaml

   spec:
     updateStrategy: SmartUpdate
     upgradeOptions:
       apply: Recommended
       versionServiceEndpoint: https://check.percona.com
       schedule: "0 0 * * *"
   ...
